docs: Go over builtin_elements.md (#2280)
slint-ui/slint: docs/language/src/builtins/builtin_elements.md

## Common properties

### Geometry

These properties are valid on all visible items:

-   **`width`** and **`height`** (_in_ _length_): The size of the element. When set, this overrides the default size.

> -   **`x`** and **`y`** (_in_ _length_): The position of the element relative to its parent

Reviewer: Somehow the trailing dot was lost :)

```suggestion
-   **`x`** and **`y`** (_in_ _length_): The position of the element relative to its parent.
```

-   **`z`** (_in_ _float_): Allows to specify a different order to stack the items with its siblings. (default value: 0)

### Layout

> These properties are valid on all visible items and can be used to expression constraints when used in layouts:

Reviewer: Oops, my suggestion was bad grammar. Here's a better option:

```suggestion
These properties are valid on all visible items and can be used to specify constraints when used in layouts:
```

-   **`accessible-value`** (_in_ _string_): The current value of the item.

### Drop Shadows

To achieve the graphical effect of a visually elevated shape that shows a shadow effect underneath the frame of
an element, it's possible to set the following `drop-shadow` properties:

-   **`drop-shadow-blur`** (_in_ _length_): The radius of the shadow that also describes the level of blur applied to the shadow. Negative values are ignored and zero means no blur. (default value: 0)
-   **`drop-shadow-color`** (_in_ _color_): The base color of the shadow to use. Typically that color is the starting color of a gradient that fades into transparency.
-   **`drop-shadow-offset-x`** and **`drop-shadow-offset-y`** (_in_ _length_): The horizontal and vertical distance of the shadow from the element's frame. A negative value places the shadow left / above of the element.

The `drop-shadow` effect is supported for `Rectangle` elements.

## `Dialog`

Dialog is like a window, but it has buttons that are automatically laid out.

A Dialog should have one main element as child, that isn't a button.

> he dialog can have any number of `StandardButton` widgets or other buttons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dialog can have any number of `StandardButton` widgets or other buttons
```

with the `dialog-button-role` property.
The buttons will be placed in an order that depends on the target platform at run-time.

The `kind` property of the `StandardButton`s and the `dialog-button-role` properties need to be set to a constant value, it can't be an arbitrary variable expression.

> There cannot be several `StandardButton` of the same kind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There can't be several `StandardButton`s of the same kind.
```

A callback `<kind>_clicked` is automatically added for each `StandardButton` which does not have an explicit
callback handler, so it can be handled from the native code: For example if there is a button of kind `cancel`,
a `cancel_clicked` callback will be added.

### Properties

-   **`icon`** (_in_ _image_): The window icon shown in the title bar or the task bar on window managers supporting it.
-   **`title`** (_in_ _string_): The window title that is shown in the title bar.

### Example

```slint
import { StandardButton, Button } from "std-widgets.slint";
export component Example inherits Dialog {
    Text {
      text: "This is a dialog box";
    }
    StandardButton { kind: ok; }
    StandardButton { kind: cancel; }
    Button {
      text: "More Info";
      dialog-button-role: action;
    }
}
```

## `Flickable`

The `Flickable` is a low-level element that is the base for scrollable
widgets, such as the [`ScrollView`](widgets.md#scrollview). When the `viewport-width` or the
`viewport-height` is greater than the parent's `width` or `height`
respectively, the element becomes scrollable. Note that the `Flickable`

> does not create a scrollbar. When unset, the `viewport-width` and `viewport-height` are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
doesn't create a scrollbar. When unset, the `viewport-width` and `viewport-height` are
```

-   **`width`** and **`height`** (_in-out_ _length_): The size of the element. When set, this overrides the default size.
-   **`x`** and **`y`** (_in-out_ _length_): the position of the element relative to its parent
-   **`z`** (_in-out_ _float_): Allows to specify a different order to stack the items with its siblings. (default: 0)

### Layout

These properties are related to the layout of widgets in user interfaces

-   **`col`**, **`row`**, **`colspan`**, **`rowspan`** (_in-out_ _int_): See [`GridLayout`](#gridlayout).
-   **`horizontal-stretch`** and **`vertical-stretch`** (_in-out_ _float_): Specify how much relative space these elements are stretching in a layout. When 0, this means that the elements will not be stretched unless all elements are 0. Builtin widgets have a value of either 0 or 1
-   **`max-width`** and **`max-height`** (_in-out_ _length_): The maximum size of an element when used in a layout.
-   **`min-width`** and **`min-height`** (_in-out_ _length_): The minimum size of an element when used in a layout.
-   **`preferred-width`** and **`preferred-height`** (_in-out_ _length_): The preferred size of an element when used in a layout.

> ### Misc

Reviewer: >  (no idea how to spell that!)

See suggestion for the spelling :)

    width: 270px;
    height: 100px;

    Flickable {
        viewport-height: 300px;
        Text {
            x:0;
            y: 150px;
            text: "This is some text that you have to scroll to see";
        }
    }
}
```

## `FocusScope`

The `FocusScope` exposes callbacks to intercept key events. Note that `FocusScope`

> will only trigger when it `has-focus`.

Reviewer: It's unclear what "trigger" means. Let's be specific: invoke is the term we use in the context of callbacks and with "them" we're referring to them explicitly.

```suggestion
will only invoke them when it `has-focus`.
```

> The [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent) has a text property which is a character of the key entered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent) has a text property, which is a character of the key entered.
```

    focus.

### Functions

-   **`focus()`** Call this function to transfer keyboard focus to this `FocusScope`,
    to receive future [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent)s.

### Callbacks

-   **`key-pressed(`_[`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent)_`) -> [`EventResult`](builtin_structs.md#eventresult)**: Invoked when a key is pressed, the argument is a [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent) struct.
-   **`key-released(`_[`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent)_`) -> [`EventResult`](builtin_structs.md#eventresult)**: Invoked when a key is released, the argument is a [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent) struct.

### Example

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 100px;
    height: 100px;
    forward-focus: my-key-handler;
    my-key-handler := FocusScope {
        key-pressed(event) => {
            debug(event.text);
            if (event.modifiers.control) {
                debug("control was pressed during this event");
            }
            if (event.text == Key.Escape) {
                debug("Esc key was pressed")
            }
            accept
        }
    }
}
```

## `GridLayout`

> `GridLayout` places its children in a grid. `GridLayout` adds properties to each item: `col`, `row`, `colspan`, `rowspan`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GridLayout` places its children in a grid. `GridLayout` adds properties to each child: `col`, `row`, `colspan`, `rowspan`.
```

You can control the position of children with `col` and `row`.

> If `col` or `row` are not specified, they are automatically computed such that the item is next to the previous item, in the same row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `col` or `row` aren't specified, they are automatically computed such that the item is next to the previous item, in the same row.
```

    width: 200px;
    height: 150px;
    GridLayout {
        Rectangle { background: red; }
        Rectangle { background: blue; }
        Rectangle { background: yellow; row: 1; }
        Rectangle { background: green; }
        Rectangle { background: black; col: 2; row: 0; }
    }
}
```

## `Image`

An `Image` can be used to represent an image loaded from a file.

### Properties

-   **`colorize`** (_in_ _brush_): When set, the image is used as an alpha mask and is drawn in the given color (or with the gradient).
-   **`image-fit`** (_in_ _enum_ [`ImageFit`](builtin_enums.md#imagefit)): Specifies how the source image shall be fit into the image element. (default value: `contain` when the `Image` element is part of a layout, `fill` otherwise)
-   **`image-rendering`** (_in_ _enum_ [`ImageRendering`](builtin_enums.md#imagerendering)): Specifies how the source image will be scaled. (default value: `smooth`)
-   **`rotation-angle`** (_in_ _angle_), **`rotation-origin-x`** (_in_ _length_), **`rotation-origin-y`** (_in_ _length_):
    Rotates the image by the given angle around the specified origin point. The default origin point is the center of the element.

>     When these properties are present, the `Image` cannot have children.

Reviewer: The properties are always present, but not necessarily set.

```suggestion
    When these properties are set, the `Image` cannot have children.
```

### Example

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 100px;

    Rectangle {
        x: 10px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        background: blue;
    }

    // Rectangle with a border
    Rectangle {
        x: 70px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        background: green;
        border-width: 2px;
        border-color: red;
    }

    // Transparent Rectangle with a border and a radius
    Rectangle {
        x: 140px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        border-width: 4px;
        border-color: black;
        border-radius: 10px;
    }

    // A radius of width/2 makes it a circle
    Rectangle {
        x: 210px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        background: yellow;
        border-width: 2px;
        border-color: blue;
        border-radius: self.width/2;
    }
}
```

## `TextInput`

The `TextInput` is a lower-level item that shows text and allows entering text.

When not part of a layout, its width or height defaults to 100% of the parent element when not specified.

### Properties

> -   **`color`** (_in_ _brush_): The color of the text (default value: depends on the style)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`color`** (_in_ _brush_): The color of the text. (default value: depends on the style)
```

> -   **`font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The font name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The name of the font family selected for rendering the text.
```

> -   **`font-size`** (_in_ _length_): The font size of the text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`font-size`** (_in_ _length_): The font size of the text.
```

-   **`font-weight`** (_in_ _int_): The weight of the font. The values range from 100 (lightest) to 900 (thickest). 400 is the normal weight.

> -   **`has-focus`** (_out_ _bool_): Set to `true` when item is focused and receives keyboard events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`has-focus`** (_out_ _bool_): `TextInput` sets this to `true` when it is focused and receives keyboard events.
```

-   **`horizontal-alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`TextHorizontalAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#texthorizontalalignment)_): The horizontal alignment of the text.

> -   **`input-type`** (_in_ _enum [`InputType`](builtin_enums.md#inputtype)_): The way to allow special input viewing properties such as password fields (default value: `text`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`input-type`** (_in_ _enum [`InputType`](builtin_enums.md#inputtype)_): Use this to configure `TextInput` for editing special input, such as password fields (default value: `text`).
```

-   **`letter-spacing`** (_in_ _length_): The letter spacing allows changing the spacing between the glyphs. A positive value increases the spacing and a negative value decreases the distance. The default value is 0.

> -   **`read-only`** (_in_ _bool_): When set to `true`, text editing via keyboard and mouse is disabled but selecting text is still enabled as well as editing text programatically (default value: `false`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`read-only`** (_in_ _bool_): When set to `true`, text editing via keyboard and mouse is disabled but selecting text is still enabled as well as editing text programatically. (default value: `false`)
```

> -   **`selection-background-color`** (_in_ _color_): The background color of the selection
> -   **`selection-foreground-color`** (_in_ _color_): The foreground color of the selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`selection-background-color`** (_in_ _color_): The background color of the selection.
-   **`selection-foreground-color`** (_in_ _color_): The foreground color of the selection.
```

> -   **`single-line`** (_in_ _bool_): When set to `true`, no newlines are allowed (default value: `true`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`single-line`** (_in_ _bool_): When set to `true`, the text is always rendered as a single line, regardless of new line separators in the text. (default value: `true`)
```

> -   **`text-cursor-width`** (_in_ _length_): The width of the text cursor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`text-cursor-width`** (_in_ _length_): The width of the text cursor. (default value: provided at run-time by the selected widget style)
```

> -   **`text`** (_in-out_ _string_): The actual text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`text`** (_in-out_ _string_): The text rendered and editable by the user.
```

-   **`vertical-alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`TextVerticalAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#textverticalalignment)_): The vertical alignment of the text.
-   **`wrap`** (_in_ _enum [`TextWrap`](builtin_enums.md#textwrap)_): The way the text input wraps. Only makes sense when `single-line` is false. (default: no-wrap)

### Methods

-   **`focus()`** Call this function to focus the text input and make it receive future keyboard events.

### Callbacks

> -   **`accepted()`**: Emitted when enter key is pressed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`accepted()`**: Invoked when enter key is pressed.
```

> -   **`cursor-position-changed([`Point`](builtin_structs.md#point))**: The cursor was moved to the new (x, y) position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`cursor-position-changed([`Point`](builtin_structs.md#point))**: The cursor was moved to the new (x, y) position.
```

> -   **`edited()`**: Emitted when the text has changed because the user modified it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`edited()`**: Invoked when the text has changed because the user modified it.
```

### Example

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 100px;

    TextInput {
        text: "Replace me with a name";
    }
}
```

## `Text`

The `Text` element is responsible for rendering text. Besides the `text` property, that specifies which text to render,
it also allows configuring different visual aspects through the `font-family`, `font-size`, `font-weight` and `color` properties.

The `Text` element can break long text into multiple lines of text. A line feed character (`\n`) in the string of the `text`
property will trigger a manual line break. For automatic line breaking you need to set the `wrap` property to a value other than

> `no-wrap` and it is important to specify a `width` and `height` for the `Text` element, in order to know where to break. It's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`no-wrap`, and it is important to specify a `width` and `height` for the `Text` element, in order to know where to break. It's
```

recommended to place the `Text` element in a layout and let it set the `width` and `height` based on the available screen space
and the text itself.

### Properties

> -   **`color`** (_in_ _brush_): The color of the text (default value: depends on the style)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`color`** (_in_ _brush_): The color of the text (default value: depends on the style).
```

> -   **`font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The font name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The name of the font family selected for rendering the text.
```

> -   **`font-size`** (_in_ _length_): The font size of the text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`font-size`** (_in_ _length_): The font size of the text.
```

-   **`font-weight`** (_in_ _int_): The weight of the font. The values range from 100 (lightest) to 900 (thickest). 400 is the normal weight.
-   **`horizontal-alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`TextHorizontalAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#texthorizontalalignment)_): The horizontal alignment of the text.
-   **`letter-spacing`** (_in_ _length_): The letter spacing allows changing the spacing between the glyphs. A positive value increases the spacing and a negative value decreases the distance. The default value is 0.
-   **`overflow`** (_in_ _enum [`TextOverflow`](builtin_enums.md#textoverflow)_): What happens when the text overflows (default: clip).

> -   **`text`** (_in_ _string_): The actual text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`text`** (_in_ _string_): The text rendered.
```

-   **`vertical-alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`TextVerticalAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#textverticalalignment)_): The vertical alignment of the text.
-   **`wrap`** (_in_ _enum [`TextWrap`](builtin_enums.md#textwrap)_): The way the text wraps (default: no-wrap).

### Example

This example shows the text "Hello World" in red, using the default font:

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 100px;

    Text {
        x:0;y:0;
        text: "Hello World";
        color: red;
    }
}
```

This example breaks a longer paragraph of text into multiple lines, by setting a `wrap`
policy and assigning a limited `width` and enough `height` for the text to flow down:

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 300px;

    Text {
        x:0;
        text: "This paragraph breaks into multiple lines of text";
        wrap: word-wrap;
        width: 150px;
        height: 100%;
    }
}
```

## `TouchArea`

> The TouchArea control what happens when the zone covered by it is touched or interacted with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `TouchArea` to control what happens when the region it covers is touched or interacted with
```

using the mouse.

> When not part of a layout, its width or height default to 100% of the parent element if not specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When not part of a layout, its width or height default to 100% of the parent element.
```

### Properties

-   **`has-hover`** (_in_ _bool_): Set to `true` by the TouchArea when the mouse is over it.

> -   **`mouse-cursor`** (_in_ _enum [`MouseCursor`](builtin_enums.md#mousecursor)_): The mouse cursor type when the mouse is hovering the TouchArea.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`mouse-cursor`** (_in_ _enum [`MouseCursor`](builtin_enums.md#mousecursor)_): The mouse cursor type when the mouse is hovering the `TouchArea`.
```

> -   **`mouse-x`**, **`mouse-y`** (_in_ _length_): Set by the TouchArea to the position of the mouse within it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`mouse-x`**, **`mouse-y`** (_out_ _length_): Set by the `TouchArea` to the position of the mouse within it.
```

> -   **`pressed-x`**, **`pressed-y`** (_in_ _length_): Set to `true` by the TouchArea to the position of the mouse at the moment it was last pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`pressed-x`**, **`pressed-y`** (_out_ _length_): Set by the `TouchArea` to the position of the mouse at the moment it was last pressed.
```

> -   **`pressed`** (_in_ _bool_): Set to `true` by the TouchArea when the mouse is pressed over it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`pressed`** (_out_ _bool_): Set to `true` by the `TouchArea` when the mouse is pressed over it.
```

### Callbacks

> -   **`clicked()`**: Emitted when clicked (the mouse is pressed, then released on this element)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`clicked()`**: Invoked when clicked: the mouse is pressed, then released.
```

-   **`moved()`**: The mouse has been moved. This will only be called if the mouse is also pressed.

> -   **`pointer-event(`_[`PointerEvent`](builtin_structs.md#pointerevent)_`)`**: Received when a button was pressed or released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`pointer-event(`_[`PointerEvent`](builtin_structs.md#pointerevent)_`)`**: Invoked when a button was pressed or released.
```

### Example

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 200px;
    height: 100px;
    area := TouchArea {
        width: parent.width;
        height: parent.height;
        clicked => {
            rect2.background = #ff0;
        }
    }
    Rectangle {
        x:0;
        width: parent.width / 2;
        height: parent.height;
        background: area.pressed ? blue: red;
    }
    rect2 := Rectangle {
        x: parent.width / 2;
        width: parent.width / 2;
        height: parent.height;
    }
}
```

## `VerticalLayout` and `HorizontalLayout`

These layouts place their children next to each other vertically or horizontally.
The size of elements can either be fixed with the `width` or `height` property, or if they are not set
they will be computed by the layout respecting the minimum and maximum sizes and the stretch factor.

### Properties

> -   **`spacing`** (_in-out_ _length_): The distance between the elements in the layout.
> -   **`padding`** (_in-out_ _length_): the padding within the layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`spacing`** (_in_ _length_): The distance between the elements in the layout.
-   **`padding`** (_in_ _length_): the padding within the layout.
```

> -   **`padding-left`**, **`padding-right`**, **`padding-top`** and **`padding-bottom`** (_in-out_ _length_): override the padding in specific sides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`padding-left`**, **`padding-right`**, **`padding-top`** and **`padding-bottom`** (_in_ _length_): Set these properties to override the padding on specific sides.
```

> -   **`alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`LayoutAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#layoutalignment)_): Set the alignment. Matches the CSS flex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`LayoutAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#layoutalignment)_): Set the alignment. Matches the CSS flex box.
```

### Example

```slint
export component Foo inherits Window {
    width: 200px;
    height: 100px;
    HorizontalLayout {
        spacing: 5px;
        Rectangle { background: red; width: 10px; }
        Rectangle { background: blue; min-width: 10px; }
        Rectangle { background: yellow; horizontal-stretch: 1; }
        Rectangle { background: green; horizontal-stretch: 2; }
    }
}
```

## `Window`

> Window is the root of what is on the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Window is the root of the tree of elements that are visible on the screen.
```

The Window geometry will be restricted by its layout constraints: setting the `width` will result in a fixed width,
and the window manager will respect the `min-width` and `max-width` so the window can't be resized bigger
or smaller. The initial width can be controlled with the `preferred-width` property. The same applies for the height.

### Properties

> -   **`background`** (_in_ _brush_): The background brush of the Window. (default value: depends on the style)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`background`** (_in_ _brush_): The background brush of the `Window`. (default value: depends on the style)
```

> -   **`default-font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The font family to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their family set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`default-font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The font family to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their `font-family` property set.
```

> -   **`default-font-size`** (_in-out_ _length_): The font size to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their size set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`default-font-size`** (_in-out_ _length_): The font size to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their `font-size` property set. The value of this property also forms the basis for relative font sizes.
```

> -   **`default-font-weight`** (_in_ _int_): The font weight to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their weight set. The values range from 100 (lightest) to 900 (thickest). 400 is the normal weight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`default-font-weight`** (_in_ _int_): The font weight to use as default in text elements inside this window, that don't have their `font-weight` property set. The values range from 100 (lightest) to 900 (thickest). 400 is the normal weight.
```

        border-width: 2px;
        border-color: red;
    }

    // Transparent Rectangle with a border and a radius
    Rectangle {
        x: 140px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        border-width: 4px;
        border-color: black;
        border-radius: 10px;
    }

    // A radius of width/2 makes it a circle
    Rectangle {
        x: 210px;
        y: 10px;
        width: 50px;
        height: 50px;
        background: yellow;
        border-width: 2px;
        border-color: blue;
        border-radius: self.width/2;
    }
}
```

## `TextInput`

The `TextInput` is a lower-level item that shows text and allows entering text.

When not part of a layout, its width or height defaults to 100% of the parent element when not specified.

### Properties

-   **`color`** (_in_ _brush_): The color of the text (default value: depends on the style)
-   **`font-family`** (_in_ _string_): The name of the font family selected for rendering the text.
-   **`font-size`** (_in_ _length_): The font size of the text.
-   **`font-weight`** (_in_ _int_): The weight of the font. The values range from 100 (lightest) to 900 (thickest). 400 is the normal weight.

> -   **`has-focus`** (_out_ _bool_): Set to `true` when this `TextInput` is focused and will receive [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent)s.

Reviewer: I think with out properties we should explicitly name who sets it. I think that's really important. It helps to emphasise the nature of out properties. If the sentence starts with "Set to `true`" it could be misread as "When you set it to `true`...").

```suggestion
-   **`has-focus`** (_out_ _bool_): `TextInput` sets this to `true` when it is focused. Only then it receives [`KeyEvent`](builtin_structs.md#keyevent)s.
```

-   **`overflow`** (_in_ _enum [`TextOverflow`](builtin_enums.md#textoverflow)_): What happens when the text overflows (default value: clip).
-   **`text`** (_in_ _string_): The text rendered.
-   **`vertical-alignment`** (_in_ _enum [`TextVerticalAlignment`](builtin_enums.md#textverticalalignment)_): The vertical alignment of the text.
-   **`wrap`** (_in_ _enum [`TextWrap`](builtin_enums.md#textwrap)_): The way the text wraps (default value: `no-wrap`).

### Example

This example shows the text "Hello World" in red, using the default font:

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 100px;

    Text {
        x:0;y:0;
        text: "Hello World";
        color: red;
    }
}
```

This example breaks a longer paragraph of text into multiple lines, by setting a `wrap`
policy and assigning a limited `width` and enough `height` for the text to flow down:

```slint
export component Example inherits Window {
    width: 270px;
    height: 300px;

    Text {
        x:0;
        text: "This paragraph breaks into multiple lines of text";
        wrap: word-wrap;
        width: 150px;
        height: 100%;
    }
}
```

## `TouchArea`

> Use `TouchArea` to control what happens when the it covers is touched or interacted with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `TouchArea` to control what happens when the region it covers is touched or interacted with
```

using the mouse.

When not part of a layout, its width or height default to 100% of the parent element.

### Properties

> -   **`has-hover`** (_out_ _bool_): Set to `true` when the mouse is over the `TouchArea`.

Reviewer: Same as in `TextInput`, emphasis that it's not for the user to set (they'll also get an error, of course).

```suggestion
-   **`has-hover`** (_out_ _bool_): `TouchArea` sets this to `true` when the mouse is over it.
```
